apps/web/README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

Commit message:

docs: generate comprehensive monorepo documentation suite

apps/web/README.md, after:

# Matcha-AI-DTU Frontend (`apps/web`)

This is the frontend application for the Matcha-AI-DTU platform, built with modern web technologies including **Next.js 15**, **React 19**, and **Tailwind CSS**. 

## ✨ Features
- **Video Upload Portal**: Utilizes `react-dropzone` for robust and intuitive drag-and-drop video file uploading.
- **Real-Time Dashboards**: Establishes continuous connection to the Orchestrator utilizing `socket.io-client` for real-time video processing updates and analysis percentages.
- **Client-Side AI Integration**: Features TensorFlow.js (`@tensorflow/tfjs`, `@tensorflow-models/coco-ssd`) and FFmpeg WASM interfaces for client-side preprocessing.
- **Sleek UI Framework**: Tailored with extensive Tailwind CSS styling and animated icons from `lucide-react`.

## 🛠 Tech Stack
- **Framework**: Next.js (App Router)
- **UI & Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4, `clsx`, `tailwind-merge`
- **Data/WebSockets**: Socket.io Client
- **Processing Support**: FFmpeg integration

## 🚀 Getting Started

From the root of the repository or from `apps/web`:

### Installation
Dependencies are gracefully handled by turbo in the root workspace, but you can install locally too:
```bash
npm install
```

### Running Locally
```bash
npm run dev
```

The application will launch on `http://localhost:3000`. 
Ensure the Orchestrator API (`http://localhost:4000`) is running concurrently for full functionality, as the frontend heavily relies on it for API requests and WebSocket events.

## 📁 Directory Context
- `app/`: Next.js App Router endpoints, pages, and layouts (e.g. `page.tsx`, `globals.css`).
- Components include modern Hooks-based React designs managing websocket states, highlighting parsed game events, and rendering generated commentary audio on top of analyzed sports videos.
