docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# 🤝 Contributing to Matcha-AI-DTU

First off, thank you for considering contributing to Matcha-AI-DTU! This project is a complex monorepo blending Next.js, NestJS, and Python CV/LLM pipelines. We're excited to have you on board.

## 1. Where to Start?
If you are looking for a place to contribute:
1. Check out the **Issues** tab.
2. Look for tickets tagged `good first issue` or `help wanted`.
3. Read the `docs/ARCHITECTURE.md` to understand the overarching data flow before jumping in.
4. Read `services/inference/AI_PIPELINE.md` if you are working on the Python inference pipeline.

## 2. Fork & Clone
1. Fork the repository on GitHub.
2. Clone your forked repo to your local machine.
3. Add the upstream remote: `git remote add upstream [repository url]`

## 3. Branch Naming Convention
We strictly follow a structured branch naming paradigm to keep CI/CD pipelines happy:

* `feature/issue-number-short-description` (e.g. `feature/42-add-tts-voices`)
* `bugfix/issue-number-short-description` (e.g. `bugfix/99-fix-websocket-crash`)
* `docs/short-description`
* `refactor/component-name`

## 4. Commit Message Standard
We utilize **Conventional Commits**:
- `feat: [description]` for new features.
- `fix: [description]` for bug fixes.
- `docs: [description]` for documentation alterations.
- `style: [description]` styling/formatting (prettier, eslint changes).
- `refactor: [description]` refactoring existing logic without breaking API boundaries.
- `chore: [description]` updating dependencies or CI pipelines.

*Example*: `feat: integrate YOLOv8n object detection model for goal calibration`

## 5. Development Workflow Recommendations
- **Always run linters** before opening a PR. Ensure `npm run lint` and `npm run format` pass successfully in the root directory.
- For Python code in `services/inference`, please use appropriate type hinting for FastAPI Pydantic models. We try to keep Python styling PEP 8 compliant.

## 6. Pull Requests
1. All Development takes place on the `dev` branch. Pull requests should target `dev`, not `main`.
2. When creating a PR, the `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` will automatically populate. **Please fill it out fully.**
3. Reference the Issue number utilizing closing terminology (e.g. "Closes #42").
4. Wait for Code Reviews. At least 1 approval is needed before merging.

---

## 7. Local Development Setup (Full Stack)

Follow these steps to run the full Matcha AI stack locally on Windows.

### Prerequisites
- **Node.js** >= 18 (LTS recommended)
- **Python** >= 3.11 (3.14 compatible)
- **PostgreSQL** running on port `5433` (or Docker)
- **FFmpeg** in your system `PATH`
- A **Gemini API key** from [Google AI Studio](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey)
- A **HuggingFace token** (free) from [huggingface.co/settings/tokens](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) — for Kokoro TTS

### Step 1: Install Node Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### Step 2: Set Up the Orchestrator
```bash
cd services/orchestrator
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env — set DATABASE_URL and HF_TOKEN
npx prisma migrate dev
npx prisma generate
```

### Step 3: Set Up the Inference Service
```bash
cd services/inference
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate        # Windows
# source venv/bin/activate   # Linux/macOS
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Create `services/inference/.env`:
```
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_key_here
HF_TOKEN=hf_your_huggingface_token
ORCHESTRATOR_URL=http://localhost:4000
```

### Step 4: Run the Full Stack
```bash
# From the monorepo root
npx turbo run dev
```

This starts:
- `apps/web` on `http://localhost:3000`
- `services/orchestrator` on `http://localhost:4000`
- `services/inference` on `http://localhost:8000`

---

## 8. Working on the Python Inference Pipeline

The inference service lives entirely in `services/inference/`. Key files:

| File | Purpose |
|---|---|
| `app/core/analysis.py` | **Main pipeline** — 5-phase video analysis orchestrator |
| `app/core/heatmap.py` | Phase 5 analytics: player heatmap PNG + ball speed estimation |
| `app/core/goal_detection.py` | Kalman filter + Homography + FSM goal detection engine |
| `app/core/soccernet_detector.py` | SoccerNet-based football event detector |
| `app/api/routes.py` | FastAPI route handlers |
| `main.py` | FastAPI app entrypoint |

### CONFIG dict
Most tunable parameters are in the `CONFIG` dict at the top of `analysis.py`. Edit there to adjust sensitivity:
```python
CONFIG = {
    "MOTION_PEAK_THRESHOLD": 0.45,  # Raise to detect fewer, more dramatic highlights
    "HIGHLIGHT_COUNT": 5,           # Number of clips in the highlight reel
    "COMPRESS_SIZE_THRESHOLD_MB": 100,  # Pre-compress videos larger than this
}
```

### Adding a New Event Type
1. Add the new type to the `EventType` enum in `services/orchestrator/prisma/schema.prisma`
2. Add a weight to `EVENT_WEIGHTS` in `analysis.py`
3. Add a minimum gap to `MODEL_MIN_GAP`
4. Add fallback commentary templates to `_FALLBACK`
5. Run `npx prisma migrate dev --name add_event_type` from `services/orchestrator/`
6. Run `npx prisma generate` to update the Prisma client

### Adding a New Analytics Metric
1. Add the computation logic to `app/core/heatmap.py` (or create a new module in `app/core/`)
2. Add the result to the `payload` dict in `analyze_video()` in `analysis.py`
3. Add the field to `CompletePayload` interface in `services/orchestrator/src/matches/matches.service.ts`
4. Add the field to the Prisma `Match` model in `schema.prisma` and run a migration
5. Display it in the "Analytics" tab in `apps/web/app/matches/[id]/page.tsx`

### TTS Voice Configuration
The 3-tier TTS system selects quality automatically. To change voices:
```python
# In services/inference/app/core/analysis.py
_KOKORO_MODEL   = "hexgrad/Kokoro-82M"   # Change to any HF TTS model
_KOKORO_VOICE   = "af_sky"               # Kokoro voice ID
_EDGE_TTS_VOICE = "en-GB-RyanNeural"     # edge-tts voice name
```

Available Kokoro voice IDs: `af_sky`, `af_bella`, `am_adam`, `am_michael`, `bf_emma`, `bm_george`, `bm_lewis`

---

## 9. Working on the Frontend (Next.js)

The frontend lives in `apps/web/`. Key locations:

| File/Directory | Purpose |
|---|---|
| `app/page.tsx` | Hero landing page |
| `app/matches/page.tsx` | Match dashboard with filter tabs |
| `app/matches/[id]/page.tsx` | Match detail page (video, events, highlights, analytics) |
| `components/match-dashboard.tsx` | Reusable match card grid component |
| `components/layout/Navbar.tsx` | Global navigation bar |
| `app/globals.css` | Global CSS, design tokens, utility classes |

### Adding a section to the Analytics Tab
The Analytics tab is in `apps/web/app/matches/[id]/page.tsx` inside the `activeTab === "analytics"` block. To add a new metric:
1. Ensure the orchestrator returns it in `GET /matches/:id`
2. Access it via `(match as any).yourNewField` (or extend the `MatchDetail` TypeScript type)
3. Add a new `<div className="bg-card border border-border p-5">` card within the analytics tab JSX

### Mobile Responsiveness Guidelines
- Always use `text-[10px] sm:text-sm` for text that appears in filter tabs or compact layouts
- Always use `size-4 sm:size-5` for icons that appear in headings
- Add `hide-scrollbar` class to any horizontally scrolling container (`<div>`)
- Test on at least 375px viewport width (iPhone SE size) before opening a PR

---

## 10. Environment Variables Cheat Sheet

Never commit `.env` files. All secrets stay local.

```bash
# services/orchestrator/.env
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:pass@localhost:5433/matcha_db?schema=public"
HF_TOKEN=hf_your_token_here
CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000
INFERENCE_URL=http://localhost:8000
PORT=4000

# services/inference/.env  
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_google_ai_studio_key
HF_TOKEN=hf_your_token_here
ORCHESTRATOR_URL=http://localhost:4000
```

---

Thank you! Let's build the best sports ML platform. 🏆

Commit message:

chore: Install ESLint configuration package dependencies and generate UI and contracts build artifacts.fixed soem bugs+upgraded docs+imrpoved shared folder for dx exp

docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# 🤝 Contributing to Matcha-AI-DTU

First off, thank you for considering contributing to Matcha-AI-DTU! This project is a complex monorepo blending Next.js, NestJS, and Python CV/LLM pipelines. We're excited to have you on board.

## 1. Where to Start?
If you are looking for a place to contribute:
1. Check out the **Issues** tab.
2. Look for tickets tagged `good first issue` or `help wanted`.
3. Read the `docs/ARCHITECTURE.md` to understand the overarching data flow before jumping in.
4. Read `services/inference/AI_PIPELINE.md` if you are working on the Python inference pipeline.

## 2. Fork & Clone
1. Fork the repository on GitHub.
2. Clone your forked repo to your local machine.
3. Add the upstream remote: `git remote add upstream [repository url]`

## 3. Branch Naming Convention
We strictly follow a structured branch naming paradigm to keep CI/CD pipelines happy:

* `feature/issue-number-short-description` (e.g. `feature/42-add-tts-voices`)
* `bugfix/issue-number-short-description` (e.g. `bugfix/99-fix-websocket-crash`)
* `docs/short-description`
* `refactor/component-name`

## 4. Commit Message Standard
We utilize **Conventional Commits**:
- `feat: [description]` for new features.
- `fix: [description]` for bug fixes.
- `docs: [description]` for documentation alterations.
- `style: [description]` styling/formatting (prettier, eslint changes).
- `refactor: [description]` refactoring existing logic without breaking API boundaries.
- `chore: [description]` updating dependencies or CI pipelines.

*Example*: `feat: integrate YOLOv8n object detection model for goal calibration`

## 5. Development Workflow Recommendations
- **Always run linters** before opening a PR. Ensure `npm run lint` and `npm run format` pass successfully in the root directory.
- For Python code in `services/inference`, please use appropriate type hinting for FastAPI Pydantic models. We try to keep Python styling PEP 8 compliant.

## 6. Pull Requests
1. All Development takes place on the `dev` branch. Pull requests should target `dev`, not `main`.
2. When creating a PR, the `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` will automatically populate. **Please fill it out fully.**
3. Reference the Issue number utilizing closing terminology (e.g. "Closes #42").
4. Wait for Code Reviews. At least 1 approval is needed before merging.

---

## 7. Local Development Setup (Full Stack)

Follow these steps to run the full Matcha AI stack locally on Windows.

### Prerequisites
- **Node.js** >= 18 (LTS recommended)
- **Python** >= 3.11 (3.14 compatible)
- **PostgreSQL** running on port `5433` (or Docker)
- **FFmpeg** in your system `PATH`
- A **Gemini API key** from [Google AI Studio](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey)
- A **HuggingFace token** (free) from [huggingface.co/settings/tokens](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) — for Kokoro TTS

### Step 1: Install Node Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### Step 2: Set Up the Orchestrator & Database
All database logic is centralized in `@matcha/database`.
```bash
# Generate the shared Prisma client
npx turbo run generate

# Deploy migrations to your local Docker Postgres
npx turbo run db:migrate
```

### Step 3: Set Up the Inference Service
```bash
cd services/inference
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate        # Windows
# source venv/bin/activate   # Linux/macOS
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Create `services/inference/.env`:
```
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_key_here
HF_TOKEN=hf_your_huggingface_token
ORCHESTRATOR_URL=http://localhost:4000
```

### Step 4: Run the Full Stack
```bash
# From the monorepo root
npx turbo run dev
```

This starts:
- `apps/web` on `http://localhost:3000`
- `services/orchestrator` on `http://localhost:4000`
- `services/inference` on `http://localhost:8000`

---

## 8. Working on the Python Inference Pipeline

The inference service lives entirely in `services/inference/`. Key files:

| File | Purpose |
|---|---|
| `app/core/analysis.py` | **Main pipeline** — 5-phase video analysis orchestrator |
| `app/core/heatmap.py` | Phase 5 analytics: player heatmap PNG + ball speed estimation |
| `app/core/goal_detection.py` | Kalman filter + Homography + FSM goal detection engine |
| `app/core/soccernet_detector.py` | SoccerNet-based football event detector |
| `app/api/routes.py` | FastAPI route handlers |
| `main.py` | FastAPI app entrypoint |

### CONFIG dict
Most tunable parameters are in the `CONFIG` dict at the top of `analysis.py`. Edit there to adjust sensitivity:
```python
CONFIG = {
    "MOTION_PEAK_THRESHOLD": 0.45,  # Raise to detect fewer, more dramatic highlights
    "HIGHLIGHT_COUNT": 5,           # Number of clips in the highlight reel
    "COMPRESS_SIZE_THRESHOLD_MB": 100,  # Pre-compress videos larger than this
}
```

### Adding a New Event Type
1. Add the new type to the `EventType` enum in `packages/database/prisma/schema.prisma`
2. Add a weight to `EVENT_WEIGHTS` in `services/inference/app/core/analysis.py`
3. Update the Zod schema in `packages/contracts/src/match.ts`
4. Run `npx turbo run db:migrate` to update the database
5. Run `npx turbo run generate` to update the Prisma client across the monorepo

### Adding a New Analytics Metric
1. Add the computation logic to `app/core/heatmap.py` (or create a new module in `app/core/`)
2. Add the result to the `payload` dict in `analyze_video()` in `analysis.py`
3. Update the `AnalysisPayload` interface and `MatchDetail` interface located inside `packages/shared/src/types.ts`.
4. Add the field to the Prisma `Match` model in `schema.prisma` and run a migration
5. Display it in the "Analytics" tab in `apps/web/app/matches/[id]/page.tsx`

### TTS Voice Configuration
The 3-tier TTS system selects quality automatically. To change voices:
```python
# In services/inference/app/core/analysis.py
_KOKORO_MODEL   = "hexgrad/Kokoro-82M"   # Change to any HF TTS model
_KOKORO_VOICE   = "af_sky"               # Kokoro voice ID
_EDGE_TTS_VOICE = "en-GB-RyanNeural"     # edge-tts voice name
```

Available Kokoro voice IDs: `af_sky`, `af_bella`, `am_adam`, `am_michael`, `bf_emma`, `bm_george`, `bm_lewis`

---

## 9. Working on the Frontend (Next.js)

The frontend lives in `apps/web/`. Key locations:

| File/Directory | Purpose |
|---|---|
| `app/page.tsx` | Hero landing page |
| `app/matches/page.tsx` | Match dashboard with filter tabs |
| `app/matches/[id]/page.tsx` | Match detail page (video, events, highlights, analytics) |
| `components/match-dashboard.tsx` | Reusable match card grid component |
| `components/layout/Navbar.tsx` | Global navigation bar |
| `app/globals.css` | Global CSS, design tokens, utility classes |

### Adding a section to the Analytics Tab
The Analytics tab is in `apps/web/app/matches/[id]/page.tsx`. To add a new metric:
1. Ensure the orchestrator returns it in the API response.
2. Update the Zod schema and TypeScript interfaces in **`packages/contracts`** and **`packages/shared`**.
3. Add a new UI card in the React component.

### Monorepo Best Practices
- **Shared Package**: Avoid defining types, constants, or WebSocket event strings locally within `apps/web` or `services/orchestrator`. Always export them from `packages/shared` so the mobile app and backend remain strictly synchronized.

### Mobile Responsiveness Guidelines
- Always use `text-[10px] sm:text-sm` for text that appears in filter tabs or compact layouts
- Always use `size-4 sm:size-5` for icons that appear in headings
- Add `hide-scrollbar` class to any horizontally scrolling container (`<div>`)
- Test on at least 375px viewport width (iPhone SE size) before opening a PR

---

## 10. Environment Variables Cheat Sheet

Never commit `.env` files. All secrets stay local.

```bash
# services/orchestrator/.env
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:pass@localhost:5433/matcha_db?schema=public"
HF_TOKEN=hf_your_token_here
CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000
INFERENCE_URL=http://localhost:8000
PORT=4000

# services/inference/.env  
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_google_ai_studio_key
HF_TOKEN=hf_your_token_here
ORCHESTRATOR_URL=http://localhost:4000
```

---

Thank you! Let's build the best sports ML platform. 🏆
